# An Analysis of Credit Risk Analysis

## Purpose of Analysis
The main prupose of this analysis was to utlize machine learning to analyze credit card risk. To perfrom this analysis I utilized a variety of different resampling models and algorithims to see how the models perfomed when prediciting credit card risk. These techniques allowed me to see which models may predict credit risk over others. 

## Results
-  The first sampling method used was the Naive Random Oversampling technique. The results, which can be seen [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/Credit_Risk_Analysis/blob/main/Naive%20Random%20Oversampling.png), show that the model has an accuracy score of .65. The results also show it has a high precision score for the low-risk loans, but a low precicision score for the high-risk loans. The model also has pretty equivalent recall scores between both type of loans.
-  The second sampling method used was the SMOTE Oversampling technique. The results, which can be seen [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/Credit_Risk_Analysis/blob/main/SMOTE%20Oversampling.png), show that the model has an accuracy score of .64. The results also show it has a high precision score for the low-risk loans, but a low precicision score for the high-risk loans. The model also has pretty equivalent recall scores between both type of loans.
-  The third sampling method used was the ClusterCentroids Undersampling technique. The results, which can be seen [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/Credit_Risk_Analysis/blob/main/ClusterCentroids%20Undersampling.png), show that the model has an accuracy score of .53. The results also show it has a high precision score for the low-risk loans, but a low precicision score for the high-risk loans. The model also has higher recall score for the high-risk loans then the low-risk loans.
-  The fourth sampling method used was the SMOTEEN sampling technique. The results, which can be seen [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/Credit_Risk_Analysis/blob/main/SMOTEEN%20Sampling.png), show that the model has an accuracy score of .64. The results also show it has a high precision score for the high-risk loans, but a low precicision score for the low-risk loans. The model also has higher recall score for the high-risk loans then the low-risk loans.
-  The fifth sampling method used was the Balanced Random Forest sampling technique. The results, which can be seen [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/Credit_Risk_Analysis/blob/main/Balanced%20Random%20Forrest%20Sampling.png), show that the model has an accuracy score of .79. The results also show it has a high precision score for the low-risk loans, but a low precicision score for the high-risk loans. The model also has higher recall score for the low-risk loans then the high-risk loans.
-  The sixth sampling method used was the Easy Ensemple sampling technique. The results, which can be seen [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/Credit_Risk_Analysis/blob/main/Easy%20Ensemple%20Sampling.png), show that the model has an accuracy score of .93. The results also show it has a high precision score for the low-risk loans, but a low precicision score for the high-risk loans. The model also has high recall scores for both types of loans.

## Summary
- The only machine learning model I would reccommend to predict credit card risk would the Easy Ensemple sampling method. This method had by far the highest accuracy score at .93 and also had the highest recall scores of all of the different methods. None of the other methods had high enough scores that would lead me to reccommend using them except for the Easy Ensemple method. 


